 oscar snubs: critics' favourite myth – until the academy picks its winners    you can't be 'snubbed'  if your chances were slim , but when the band plays the winners off stage,  your outrage may be due t hor spoke, and twitter lit up with all the usual thunder, lightning and outrage in response to  the 2014 oscar nominations , announced this morning. no redford! no oprah! no hanks! no coens! grantland’s mark harris reminded everyone,  via a tweet , that “unless the ampas board of governors goes to a non-nominee’s house, wakes him and spit at him, ‘oscar snub’ is not a real thing,” but in the season of grievance and proxy offence-taking that is the oscar race, such sweet reason counts for little. “i still sucks to be one of those left holding a losing hand,” decided deadline hollywood ,  first to the scene of the crash with a shame sheet of absentees to rub salt into the wounds of  oprah winfrey  (“what are they drinking over there?”)  inside llewyn davis  (“certainly did warrant one of the 10 possible best picture spots”),  redford  (“obviously fell on deaf ears with academy members”). who else?  emma thompson  (“not even a spoon full of sugar will help this bitter pill go down”), tom hanks  (“ maybe there is a limit to how many oscars one man can have”) and scarlett johanson (“hard also to see how she could have been overlooked”). really? for a voice performance? by the time they had worked their way down to the omissions of  august: osage county ,  saving mr banks  and  lee daniels’ the butler  from the best picture list, the outrage felt decidedly on the frothy side.  even by the most elastic definition of the word, you can’t be “snubbed” if you weren’t expecting to be included in the first place, and all three films hit a brick wall with critics (with metacritic scores of each are 58, 65, and 66 respectively). the academy has a history of reducing fully-grown film critics to moaning balls of pain, of course, but what’s striking about this year’s best picture list is its relative lack of howlers.  12 years a slave  (97)  american hustle  (90),  her  (91)  captain phillips  (93),  dallas buyers club  (84),  gravity  (96)  nebraska  (86) and even the controversial  wolf of wall street  (75) were all extremely well received, with  philomena  (76) the closest the list comes to the marshes of the middle-brow, and even that steven frears picture came with a sharp-tongued script and a jolt of anti-clerical anger. the lesson would seem to be, for those who haven’t learned it yet, that despite its reputation for blandness, the academy’s new(ish) preferential ballot system favors films with a small pocket of passionate support over over broad consensus choices.  saving mr banks , august: osage county, and lee daniels: the butler had their fans but they weren’t exactly shouting from the rooftops. but  philomena  had the brits at its back; her had a pack of ardent admirers; and unnoticed in  the furore over wolf of wall street  – at the height of which a member of the writers’ branch snapped “ shame on you! ” at scorsese in an elevator – was the push-back its critics were getting from the film’s fans. as harris correctly predicted: “disgust at that silly harrumphing probably got the movie at least 100 first-place backlash-to-the-backlash votes.” the wolf pack have to be pleased, too, with that nomination for jonah hill, whose improvisation skills scorsese and dicaprio have been talking up at every available opportunity.  how do the nominations change the contours of the race? strange to say, not that much. thanks to the exponential annual growth of the oscar commentariat, the oscar race is such intensively farmed land that fresh soil is almost impossible to come by at this stage in the game. 12 years a slave, alfonso cuaron,  cate blanchett  are still the frontrunners in their respective categories, as they have been all season. redford’s absence means that  matthew mcconaughey  is the clear favorite for best actor, while his co-star jared leto looks increasingly solid for best supporting actor. with oprah out of the way, best supporting actress turns into a rematch of the golden globe contest between jennifer lawrence and lupita nyong’o. the biggest question of the evening would seem to be: how are the academy going to reward american hustle? along with gravity, david o russell’s beguiling conman fantasia got the most nominations (10), which doesn't guarantee much, as was proved when lincoln, nominated 12 times, took home a single trophy last year. but russell’s film is much loved, particularly by the actors' branch. and if there’s one rule with the oscars, it is that, denied the obvious place to reward a film (best picture, best director) appreciation will spill sideways into some of the other categories. so lawrence looks a little stronger than some have her, and best original screenplay begins to look increasingly like it is has russell’s name on it. if he doesn’t win, i will be shocked, shocked i tell you, by this most outrageous of snubs.