good morning britain host kate garraway in talks to head to i’m a celebrity jungle   kate could be heading to the australian jungle if she signs a deal which could be in the region of £150,000 good morning britain presenter kate garraway is in talks to appear on i’m a celebrity! the news anchor, 51, has been approached by itv bosses about heading to down under for a stint in the australian jungle when the reality tv show returns in november. it’s understood that if a deal is signed in the coming weeks then it would be in the region of £150,000. a source said: “ kate  has been approached by show producers because they know she would be tv gold. she has been a massive ratings hit on good morning britain, thanks in part to her chemistry with co-hosts piers morgan and ben shepherd, and there’s no doubt she’ll transfer that appeal to australia with her celebrity campmates. “kate has always been relatable and game for a challenge but since entering her fifties she’s embracing all aspects of life and sees the aussie jungle as the ultimate life test. “she’s in great shape at the minute too so wouldn’t have any qualms about stripping off in a bikini and would be flying the flag for the more mature lady.” the mum-of-two would be joined by inbetweeners actress emily atack, 28, and made in chelsea star jamie laing, 29, who the sun revealed have also signed up for this year’s i’m a celebrity... get me out of here. i’m a celeb co-host declan donnelly is set to be joined by this morning star holly willoughby when the show returns without presenter ant mcpartlin so the star can continue to focus on his recovery. last year tv presenter kate - married to labour spin doctor turned psychotherapist derek draper - admitted in an on-screen interview with past i’m a celeb campmate martin roberts that she would “love to” be asked to appear on the show. after spending the past 20 years making her name in breakfast tv - including a decade on gmtv - she was chosen to front good morning britain in 2014 alongside susanna reid and ben shephard, and later piers morgan. movie star renée zellweger famously admitted to watching footage of her on gmtv to prepare for when her character bridget jones landed a job in breakfast tv. last night a spokesperson for kate declined to comment. an itv spokesperson added: “any names suggested are just speculation at this stage.” 